_rpi/PiNotes.md, before:

# Introduction

Setup of the RPi for use as logger system for SDE.

## Post-install

(This assumes SD card set up to connect to local wifi, accept SSH, and hardware attached) 

### Housekeeping

    ssh-copy-id pi@raspberrypi.local
    sudo hostname sde-X # Change X to whatever serial needed. MAY need to edit hosts file?
    sudo sed -i -e 's/raspberrypi/sde-X/g' /etc/hosts 
    sudo reboot

### Basic installs

	sudo passwd pi # then change to project password
	sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade
	sudo apt install i2c-tools libi2c-dev python-smbus # for BerryIMU connection
	sudo apt install git
	
	sudo apt install python-pip
	sudo apt install python3-pip # For Py3 packages

### GPS setup:	

	sudo apt install gpsd gpsd-clients python-gps

(Set gpsd conf for /dev/ttyUSB0) # Note this was different for another USB GPS, instead using ttyAMA0. However this might be because of other /dev/tty* modifications for using the USB as a terminal connection?

​	

Edit /etc/default/gpsd and update DEVICES and GPSD_OPTIONS. The following works for the GlobalSat BU, others need to be confirmed with `ls /dev/tty*` or `dmesg | grep tty` before and after plugging in.

	DEVICES="/dev/ttyUSB0"
	GPSD_OPTIONS="-n"


### GPS as time server

Edit `/etc/chrony/chrony.conf`, add the following line to the end of the file:

	refclock SHM 0 offset 0.5 delay 0.2 refid NMEA

After reboot, check if NMEA source is in use:

	chronyc sources -v

2019-03-26 Note on GPS

* Have been using a USB GPS so far but the time sync is probably not

## Data setup

	sudo mkdir /sdedata	
	sudo chmod 777 /sdedata/

## Get code

	git clone https://github.com/TZCRC/SDE-CamPod.git

### Bluetooth setup

This isn't used at present, as we are waiting for code for Android connection.	
	
	sudo apt-get install libbluetooth-dev # Untested: needed for following?
	pip install pybluez # Python 2.7 bluetooth module

## Boot scripts

Add the following lines to rc.local - this will start the various scripts on boot. Not sure if the cron file is a better place for these?

Add logging option to see if anything goes wrong with the scripts:

	exec 1>/tmp/rc.local.log 2>&1  # send stdout and stderr from rc.local to a log file
	set -x

Start gpslogger logging to a GPX file:

	sudo gpslogger -d -f /sdedata/trk_`date +"%Y%m%d%H%M%S"`.gpx

Start IMU script:
	
	python /home/pi/workspace/_github/SDE-CamPod/_rpi/IMU/berryIMU.py

## IMU setup

Use config utility `sudo raspi-config`, then select 

## Android connection 

2018-09-15 Work in progress - connection not set up yet.

	sudo bluetoothctl
	sudo echo "PRETTY_HOSTNAME=sde-X" > /etc/machine-info # Set a better name for Pi in BT broadcast.

## Attribution & Acknowledgements

Copyright Howard L. Frederick ([Tanzania Wildlife Research Institute](https://www.tawiri.or.tz)) 2018-2020.

Developed with support from [Vulcan Inc., Seattle, WA](https://www.vulcan.com/). 

Shield: [![CC BY-SA 4.0][cc-by-sa-shield]][cc-by-sa]

## Documentation license

This work is licensed under a
[Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License][cc-by-sa].

[![CC BY-SA 4.0][cc-by-sa-image]][cc-by-sa]

[cc-by-sa]: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/
[cc-by-sa-image]: https://licensebuttons.net/l/by-sa/4.0/88x31.png
[cc-by-sa-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/License-CC%20BY--SA%204.0-lightgrey.svg

Commit message:

Updated GPS logging for gpspipe

_rpi/PiNotes.md, after:

# Introduction

Setup of the RPi for use as logger system for SDE.

## Post-install

(This assumes SD card set up to connect to local wifi, accept SSH, and hardware attached) 

### Housekeeping

    ssh-copy-id pi@raspberrypi.local
    sudo hostname sde-X # Change X to whatever serial needed. MAY need to edit hosts file?
    sudo sed -i -e 's/raspberrypi/sde-X/g' /etc/hosts 
    sudo reboot

### Basic installs

	sudo passwd pi # then change to project password
	sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade
	sudo apt install i2c-tools libi2c-dev python-smbus # for BerryIMU connection
	sudo apt install git
	
	sudo apt install python-pip
	sudo apt install python3-pip # For Py3 packages

### GPS setup:	

	sudo apt install gpsd gpsd-clients python-gps


Edit /etc/default/gpsd and update DEVICES and GPSD_OPTIONS. The following works for the GlobalSat BU, others need to be confirmed with `ls /dev/tty*` or `dmesg | grep tty` before and after plugging in.

	DEVICES="/dev/ttyUSB0"
	GPSD_OPTIONS="-n"

For BerryGPS:

	DEVICES="/dev/ttySerial0"
	GPSD_OPTIONS="-n"

### GPS as time server

Edit `/etc/chrony/chrony.conf`, add the following line to the end of the file:

	refclock SHM 0 offset 0.5 delay 0.2 refid NMEA

After reboot, check if NMEA source is in use:

	chronyc sources -v

2019-03-26 Note on GPS

* Have been using a USB GPS so far but the time sync seems to be very inaccurate (+/- 500ms or more). 
  
2021-09-17 GPS sync:

* BerryGPS-IMU with external antenna give 110ms accuracy in chrony. #ToDo: If a PPS signal is used (necessitates soldering wire to GPIO) will be even more accurate (ToDo).

## Data setup

	sudo mkdir /sdedata	
	sudo chmod 777 /sdedata/

## Get code

	git clone https://github.com/TZCRC/SDE-CamPod.git

### Bluetooth setup

This isn't used at present, as we are waiting for code for Android connection.	
	
	sudo apt-get install libbluetooth-dev # Untested: needed for following?
	pip install pybluez # Python 2.7 bluetooth module

## Boot scripts

Add the following lines to rc.local - this will start the various scripts on boot. Not sure if the cron file is a better place for these?

Add logging option to see if anything goes wrong with the scripts:

	exec 1>/tmp/rc.local.log 2>&1  # send stdout and stderr from rc.local to a log file
	set -x

~~Start gpxlogger logging to a GPX file:~~ Start GPSpipe running as daemon - will continue to run and log, whereas GPXlogger has not worked effectively (constantly needs to be restarted?)

	# gpxlogger -d -f /sdedata/trk_`date +"%Y%m%d%H%M%S"`.gpx
	gpspipe -r -f -f /sdedata/trk_`date +"%Y%m%d%H%M%S"`.nmea

Start IMU script:
	
	python /home/pi/workspace/_github/SDE-CamPod/_rpi/IMU/berryIMU.py

## IMU setup

Use config utility `sudo raspi-config`, then select 

## Android connection 

2018-09-15 Work in progress - connection not set up yet.

	sudo bluetoothctl
	sudo echo "PRETTY_HOSTNAME=sde-X" > /etc/machine-info # Set a better name for Pi in BT broadcast.

## Attribution & Acknowledgements

Copyright Howard L. Frederick ([Tanzania Wildlife Research Institute](https://www.tawiri.or.tz)) 2018-2020.

Developed with support from [Vulcan Inc., Seattle, WA](https://www.vulcan.com/). 

Shield: [![CC BY-SA 4.0][cc-by-sa-shield]][cc-by-sa]

## Documentation license

This work is licensed under a
[Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License][cc-by-sa].

[![CC BY-SA 4.0][cc-by-sa-image]][cc-by-sa]

[cc-by-sa]: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/
[cc-by-sa-image]: https://licensebuttons.net/l/by-sa/4.0/88x31.png
[cc-by-sa-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/License-CC%20BY--SA%204.0-lightgrey.svg
